Add error handling proposal documents (#1402)
kyma-incubator/compass: docs/internal/proposals/error-handling/error-handling.md

# Error handling in Director GraphQL

> Errors can originate from different sources. This document describes our approach of handling them internally and presenting them in the readable form for the users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Errors can originate from different sources. This document describes our approach to handling them internally and presenting them in a readable form to the users.
```

> ## Errors displayed to the user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Errors displayed to the user

```

> Errors that are returned to the user can be split into two groups, based on the error handling approach. Errors that originate from external systems, libraries, panics, and directly not depend on the user input are handled as the internal one. Such errors are returned to the user as the `InternalError` type. Errors that directly depend on the user input are classified as separate types which in detail describes the nature of a problem.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Errors that are returned to the user can be split into two groups, based on the error handling approach. Errors that originate from external systems, libraries, panics, and directly not depend on the user input are handled as the internal one. Such errors are returned to the user as the `InternalError` type. Errors that directly depend on the user input are classified as separate types which in detail describe the nature of a problem.
```

This is the list of custom errors that are displayed to the user:

| Error type             | Error code    |                            Description                                                                      |
|------------------------|---------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `InternalError`        | `10`          | Specifies any error that cannot be handled in the Director. Such situation is unique and serious.           |
| `NotFound`             | `20`          | Indicates that a given resource cannot be found and further processing is impossible.                       |
| `NotUnique`            | `21`          | Indicates that a given resource is not unique.                                                              |
| `InvalidData`          | `22`          | Indicates that the input data is invalid with the reason described in the error message.                    | 
| `InsufficientScopes`   | `23`          | Indicates that the client doesn't have permission to execute the operation.                                 |

> | `ConstraintViolation`  | `24`          | Indicates that this operation can't happen because the referenced resource does not exist.                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `ConstraintViolation`  | `24`          | Indicates that the operation cannot be executed because the referenced resource does not exist.                  |
```

> | `TenantIsRequired`     | `25`          | Indicates that a tenant is not found in the request, which is required to successfully execute the request. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `TenantIsRequired`     | `25`          | Indicates that a tenant is not found in the request, which is required to successfully handle the request. |
```

| `TenantNotFound`       | `26`          | Indicates that the internal tenant is not found in the Director.                                            |

## Error processing flow

![](error-handling.svg)

> * Internal errors, External lib errors, PostgreSQL error, directives are sources of errors in the Director.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Internal errors, external lib errors, PostgreSQL errors, and directives are sources of errors in the Director.
```

> * PostgreSQL Error Mapper - this component map PostgreSQL errors to custom errors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. PostgreSQL Error Mapper maps PostgreSQL errors to custom errors.
```

> * Panic Handler - this component recovers all panics and transform them as custom errors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Panic Handler recovers all panics and transforms them into custom errors.
```

> * Error presenter - this component search for custom error in error stack. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Error Presenter searches for custom errors in the error stack. 
```

> If such error is found, the presenter add `error_code` and `error` metadata to the GraphQL error in section `extensions`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If such an error is found, the Error Presenter adds `error_code` and `error` metadata to the GraphQL error in the **extensions** section.
```

> In case of internal errors, the whole error is logged and `internal server error` is sent to client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case of internal errors, the error is logged and the `internal server error` message is sent to the client.
```

> In case of errors which are not handled by custom error library, the error is returned without error code and error message is logged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case of errors that are not handled by custom error library, the error is returned without any error code and an error message is logged.
```

> ## PoC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## PoC

```

# Error handling in Director GraphQL

Errors can originate from different sources. This document describes our approach to handling them internally and presenting them in a readable form to the users.

## Errors displayed to the user

> Errors that are returned to the user can be split into two groups, based on the error handling approach. Errors that originate from external systems, libraries, panics, and directly not dependent on the user input are handled as the internal one. Such errors are returned to the user as the `InternalError` type. Errors that directly depend on the user input are classified as separate types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Errors that are returned to the user can be split into two groups, based on the error handling approach. Errors that originate from external systems, libraries, panics, and directly not dependent on the user input are handled as the internal ones. Such errors are returned to the user as the `InternalError` type. Errors that directly depend on the user input are classified as separate types.
```

| `InsufficientScopes`   | `23`          | Indicates that the client doesn't have permission to execute the operation.                                 |
| `ConstraintViolation`  | `24`          | Indicates that the operation cannot be executed because the referenced resource does not exist.                  |
| `TenantIsRequired`     | `25`          | Indicates that a tenant is not found in the request, which is required to successfully handle the request. |
| `TenantNotFound`       | `26`          | Indicates that the internal tenant is not found in the Director.                                            |

## Error processing flow

![](error-handling.svg)
1. Internal errors, external lib errors, PostgreSQL errors, and directives are sources of errors in the Director.
2. PostgreSQL Error Mapper maps PostgreSQL errors to custom errors.
3. Panic Handler recovers all panics and transforms them into custom errors.
3. Error Presenter searches for custom errors in the error stack. 
If such an error is found, the Error Presenter adds `error_code` and `error` metadata to the GraphQL error in the **extensions** section.

> In case of internal errors, the error is logged and the `internal server error` message is sent to the client.

Author: ```suggestion
In case of internal errors, the error is logged and the `internal server error` is sent to the client.
```

# Error handling in Director GraphQL

> The errors can come from external libraries, triggered by the Director due to user wrong actions.
> We have to filter errors that are readable for both users and machines.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Errors can originate from different sources. This document describes our approach of handling them internally and presenting them in the readable form for the users.
```

## Errors displayed to the user

> These are the basic errors that should be displayed to the user:
> * InternalError
> * NotFound
> * NotUnique
> * InvalidData
> * InsufficientScopes
> * ConstraintViolation
> * TenantIsRequired
> * TenantNotFound
> 
> This list can be split into two separate groups due to different error handling:
> * Internal errors that originate from external libraries, panics, PostgreSQL (except such errors as `NotFound`, `NotUnique`). 
>   The error is visible to the user as `InternalError`.
> * The rest of errors that are mostly caused by the user.

Reviewer 3: I'd rephrase this paragraph, I do not see the need for presenting here the types as they are described in detail below.

```suggestion
Errors that are returned to the user can be split into two groups, based on the error handling approach. Errors that originate from external systems, libraries, panics, and directly not depend on the user input are handled as the internal one. Such errors are returned to the user as the `InternalError` type. Errors that directly depend on the user input are classified as separate types which in detail describes the nature of a problem.
```

# Error handling in Director graphql

In Compass Director, we have to filter errors which should be visible to user and add information which can be readable by machine.

## Error types
Basic list of errors which should be displayed to the user:
* InternalError
* NotFound
* NotUnique
* InvalidData
* InsufficientScopes
* ConstraintViolation
* TenantIsRequired
* TenantNotFound

This list can be split into 2 groups due to different handling:
* internal errors
* the rest of errors, which will be presented to the user

In group of internal errors, are errors from:
* external libraries
* panics
* postgreSQL, except errors like NotFound, NotUnique

> To deal with the errors we introduced custom errors, which contains error codes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

## Custom errors and theirs error codes:

| Error type           | Error code  |                            Description                                                            |
|----------------------|-------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | InternalError        | 10          | Error which cannot be handled in director                                                         |

Reviewer: Please elaborate on this.

> | NotFound             | 20          | Error indicate that given resource cannot be found and further processing is impossible           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| NotFound             | 20          | Indicates that a given resource cannot be found and further processing is impossible.           |
```

> | NotUnique            | 21          | Error indicates that given resource is not unique                                                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| NotUnique            | 21          | Indicates that a given resource is not unique.                                                 |
```

> | InvalidData          | 22          | The input data is invalid, error description should be delivered in error message                 | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| InvalidData          | 22          | Indicates that the input data is invalid with the reason described in the error message.                 | 
```

> | InsufficientScopes   | 23          | Error which indicate that the client doesn't have sufficient permissions to execute the operation |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| InsufficientScopes   | 23          | Indicates that the client doesn't have permission to execute the operation. |
```

> | ConstraintViolation  | 24          | Error which indicate that this operation can't happen because referenced resource not exist       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| ConstraintViolation  | 24          | Indicates that this operation can't happen because the referenced resource does not exist.       |
```

> | TenantIsRequired     | 25          | Tenant not found in request and is required to successful execute the request                     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| TenantIsRequired     | 25          | Indicates that a tenant is not found in the request, which is required to successfully execute the request.                     |
```

> | TenantNotFound       | 26          | Internal Tenant not found in director                                                             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| TenantNotFound       | 26          | Indicates that the internal tenant is not found in the Director.                                                            |
```

> NotFoundError can be triggered in mutation like `addPackage` to not existing application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> ## Error processing flow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Error processing flow
```

![](error-handling.svg)

> Description of following steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer: Please describe the diagram in more detail. Maybe adding steps would be a good option? Refer to the [guidelines](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/master/guidelines/content-guidelines/02-diagrams.md#examples) if needed.

* PostgreSQL Error Mapper - this component map postgreSQL errors to custom errors
* Error presenter - this component search for custom error in error stack. 
If such error is found, the presenter add `error_code` and `error` metadata to the GraphQL error in section `extensions`
In case of internal errors, the whole error is logged and `internal server error` is sent to client.
In case of errors which are not handled by custom error library, the error is returned without error code and error message is logged.

> ## Proof of concept

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## PoC
```

> [Here](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/compass/pull/1366) is implemented PoC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [implemented PoC](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/compass/pull/1366) for more details.
```
